SDS - Software Design Specification

1. Main Product Features & Capabilities

Introduction Document Goals

According to the use cases and the user stories we described on the SRS page before, we'll build a guideline scheme for our project.

This Document will describe the system architecture.

The goal of design page are:

Preparation for the realization of our software.
Help us to split the tasks of the implementation between team members.
Checking correctness of software design.
Save coding cumbersome
Realizing preparation clearly code
Focus on the developments we should think about in advance, before we start coding.
In this document you will find several diagrams: Deployment diagram, CRC Cards, Class diagram and state chart.

Capabilities:

Main ability	Description	Risks
1	Distribution	Using distributing platforms such as Firebase. This is the platform that we will use during the development, it can be a different one than what the organization will want in the future.	High
2	Sign-in	the administrator can sign in to the service using username and password that we provide, and action	High
3	Add permissions to the system	The administrator can add permission to sync the app with the Facebook / Google calendar page of an organization that wants to.	Medium
4	Deleting permission from system	The administrator can download permission to sync the app with a Facebook / Google calendar page for an organization.	Medium
5	Add to recommendations list	The administrator can add a recommendation to the list of recommendations published in the app.	Medium
6	Deletes a recommendation for the list of recommendations	The administrator can delete a recommendation from the list of recommended recommendations in the app.	Medium
7	Add event	The Facebook / Google Calendar Manager of an organization adds an event to the organization's calendar that syncs with the app, if authorized.	Medium
8	Using App	User can view events synced with the app, switch from monthly / weekly / daily view mode, select an organization's event view, and view the list of recommendations.	Low
Related Documentation

SDS Review summary 
team

2. UML Modeling

Class Diagrams: will be presented later on, after writing first code.

Deployment Diagram: Description of visualize the topology of the hardware and devices of system where the software components are deployed. 

CRC Cards: show the class responsibilities and other classs connection.



Class Diagrams: represent the object oriented view and classs asssociations of a system.

State Charts: Describing behaviour inside the application.
Behaviour

Display Behaviour



Users Behaviour



3. Persistence

All the data will be saved on a SQL DataBase:

4. Non-functional Requirements:
The application will (in a future version) display a diffrent icon for each type of searcher: medic , climbing specialist , etc...
The application will save navigational data after each event for analysis or police investigation.
The application will save for each volunteer personal information including name and phone number.
The administrator will have a seperate user name and password allowing access to all high level features.
The user interface will be as simple and user friendly as possible..

5. Risk Management

Risk	Severity	Probability	Response
1	Unknown development environment	Medium	2	1. Watching tutorials on Youtube.
2. Formal materials on the internet. 
3. Consulting Dr. Yagel and Yaacov.
2	Low performance - server dealing with lots of requests	High	1	1. Using firebase service as a stable platform.
3	Unsatisfied Client	Low	1	1. Monthly meeting and monitor our progress.
4	Estimations	High	1	1. Pre-planned schedule
2. Efficient time use
3. assigning tasks according member's program abilities.
4. Set goals and milestones.
5	Inexperienced team	Medium	2	1. Consult Dr. Yagel, Yaacov and Hadas.
2. Share knowledge with other friends in class.
6	Changing in client's demands	Medium	1	1. Pre coordination in changes
2. Write the client's requierments and let the client review it. After it's review, consider decline client's changes.
7	Disproportional requirements	High	1	1. Consider client's requierments and if needed decline.
6. User Manual

User manual

7. Initial Test Plan

This is an initial test plan. This plan will be change through the development process.

Accessing from different browsers .
Predfined Facebook page for test use .
Choosing the program language and the IDE to work with .
Choose a testing envoirment for the Calendar API .
Username/password for adminstrator stored in Firebase database.
© Copyright by Avi Cohen, Omri Terem, Meitar Shukrun, Sagi Marciano, Ze'ev Melumian.
